### Requirements:

* a Windows computer,
* a Unity3D installation (latest recommended),
* [optional] an Oculus Quest headset.

### Installing the Unity Engine plugin

If you start from scratch, just create a new, empty project in Unity. It is recommended to always use the most recent Unity version in terms of major version number (e.g., 2020.x.x, 2021.x.x, etc). Unity and the VirtualGrasp SDK are very robust in terms of up- or downgrading inside a major version for your projects.

{% include image.html file="unity/unity_new_project.png" alt="New Unity Project" caption="Create a New Project in Unity" %}

To import VirtualGrasp into your Unity project, go to Assets → Import Package → Custom Package and import the VirtualGrasp *.unitypackage. After doing this, you should find the main VirtualGrasp installation under ThirdParty/VirtualGrasp in your Unity project. 

### Getting Started with VirtualGrasp and the Console View

Drag and drop the Prefab “GleechiLib” from the ThirdParty/VirtualGrasp/Resources directory into your scene. In your Hierarchy view, you will see the instantiated {% include tooltip.html tooltip="GameObject" text="GameObject" %} hierarchy called GleechiLib.

Have a quick look at the imported GameObject by selecting it in the object hierarchy. There is only one component added by default, which is the minimal component needed for VirtualGrasp: [MyVirtualGrasp.cs](unity_component_myvirtualgrasp.0.9.5.html). When you now play your scene, you should see some messages produced by the plugin in the Console Window.

You can identify that VG has been successfully initialized when a message like these appear on the Console, also informing you of the SDK version:

{% include callout.html content="Initialized VirtualGrasp SDK 0.9.1 (core 0.6.1)." %}

<!--{% include image.html file="unity/unity_console_initialization.png" alt="VG Console Initialization" caption="VirtualGrasp initialization message in the Unity console." %}-->

{% include tip.html content="Whenever something related to the VirtualGrasp plugin does not work as expected, first have a look at the Console. In most cases, you will be able to identify issues through error messages that are generated by the plugin." %}

{% if include.skip != "true" %}
#### QuickStart Video

{% include youtube.html id="CHo9TB_yYps" caption="QuickStart with VirtualGrasp in Unity." %}

{% include custom/series_acme_next.html %}
{% endif %}
