---
title: Getting Started in Unity - Installation
series: "Getting Started in Unity series"
weight: 1
sidebar: unity_sdk_sidebar
keywords: hand, object, avatar, install, quickstart
permalink: unity_get_started_installation.html
folder: mydoc
toc: false
---

## Requirements:

* a Windows computer
* Unity3D (latest recommended)
* [optional] an Oculus Quest headset

## Installing the Unity Engine plugin

If you start from the scratch, just create a new, empty project in Unity. It is recommended to always use the most recent Unity version in terms of major version number (e.g., 2020). Unity and the VG plugin are very robust in terms of up- or downgrading inside a major version for your projects.

{% include image.html file="unity/unity_new_project.png" alt="New Unity Project" caption="Create a New Project in Unity" %}

To import the VirtualGrasp into your Unity project, go to Assets→ Import Package → Custom Package and import the VirtualGrasp *.unitypackage. After doing this, you should find the main VirtualGrasp installation under ThirdParty/VirtualGrasp in your Unity project. 

Drag and drop the Prefab “GleechiLib” from the ThirdParty/VirtualGrasp/Resources sub-directory into your scene. In your Hierarchy view, you will see the instantiated <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-original-title="{{site.data.glossary.GameObject}}">GameObject</a> hierarchy called GleechiLib.


### QuickStart Video

{% include youtube.html id="CHo9TB_yYps" caption="QuickStart with VirtualGrasp in Unity." %}

## Getting Started with VirtualGrasp and the Console View

Have a quick look at the imported GameObject by selecting it in the object hierarchy. There is only one component added by default, which is the minimal component needed for VirtualGrasp: MyVirtualGrasp.cs. When you now play your scene, you should see some messages produced by the plugin in the Console Window.

You can identify that VG has been successfully initialized when messages like these appear:
{% include image.html file="unity/unity_console_initialization.png" alt="VG Console Initialization" caption="VirtualGrasp initialization message in the Unity console." %}

If you created a new project, one of the first message you will probably see is the following:
{% include image.html file="unity/unity_no_tag.png" alt="No Unity tags." caption="VirtualGrasp needs an \"Object\" tag or layer." %}
VirtualGrasp uses tags and layers to mark objects as interactables. By default, it searches for "Object" as a layer or tag name. For now, just create a new tag by and call it "Object."You can do this either by adding a new object into your scene and use "Add Tag" (see leftpicture below, "Tag"), or by opening the Layers→"Edit Layers" and add the Tag there (see the [Figure below](mydoc_introduction.html#5-make-an-object-interactable-in-a-few-seconds).). 

{% include tip.html content="Whenever something related to the VirtualGrasp plugin does not work as expected, first have a look at the Console. In most cases, you will be able to identify issues through error messages that are generated by the plugin." %}

{% include custom/series_acme_next.html %}
