---
title: VirtualGrasp Onboarding Task9 - Plier Manipulation Animation
#tags: [getting_started] 
keywords: casestudy, task9, vgonboarding, disassemble, VG_AnimationDriver, VG_FingerAnimator, VG_ObjectAnimator
#last_updated: July 16, 2016
#summary: "Version 6.0 of the Documentation theme for Jekyll, released July 4, 2016, implements relative links so you can view the files offline or on any server without configuring urls and baseurls. Additionally, you can store pages in subdirectories. Templates for alerts and images are available."
sidebar: main_sidebar_1_1_0
permalink: unity_vgonboarding_task9.1.1.0.html
folder: mydoc
---

{% include onboarding_task.html %}

### Task Description

{% include youtube.html id="7QCeKYOZMVc" %}

#### Interaction behaviors wanted

* We want to be able to use primary grasp as a basis to grasp and manipulate an articuclated object, plier.
* We want to use the controller's GRIP button to control grasp, and once the plier is grasped, to use TRIGGER button to animate closing and opening of the plier.

### Solution

In VirtualGrasp SDK, we packed the solution of this task in **VirtualGrasp/Scenes/onboarding**, as "Task 9". 
```js
VirtualGrasp/Scenes/onboarding/VG_Onboarding.unity
````

Since grasps generated by VG are "rigid" hand poses on individual rigid bodies, in order to create in-hand manipulation on articulated objects like the plier shown in this example, a few steps need to be done that will be explained here:

#### Create composite object model of articulated object for primary grasps
First we need a composite object model that contains two separate meshes for each articulated part and a combined mesh that models the two parts together in their initial articulated pose. 
{% include image.html file="unity/unity_onboarding_task9_pliers_combined_mesh.png" alt="Composite plier model." caption="Composite plier model for animating in-hand manipulating articulated object." %}

The combined mesh should be marked as an {% include tooltip.html tooltip="VGInteractable" text="interactable" %} object by adding [VG_Articulation](unity_component_vgarticulation.1.1.0.html) to its transform. Then bake the object using [VG_BakingClient](unity_component_vgbakingclient.1.1.0.html). 
Once the object is baked, [VG_GraspEditor](unity_component_vggraspeditor.1.1.0.html) is used to add primary grasps on both left and right hands. 

#### Create finger animation post grasp

For each hand side, a [VG_FingerAnimator](unity_component_vgfingeranimator.1.1.0.html) and a [VG_AnimationDriver](unity_component_vganimationdriver.1.1.0.html) component is added to the object. See the images below showing the setup for the left hand: 
   
* The VG_FingerAnimator specifies the proximal and middle bones of the four non-thumb finger(s) are to be animated, and the target local **Rotation** is 18 degrees around Z-axis of bone transform relative to the current finger pose.  
* And the VG_AnimationDriver specifies the **Action Reference** to use the input signal from controller's TRIGGER button value, which has [0, 1] as **Input Range** to drive the animation. On listening to the **On Drive** event, _VG_FingerAnimator.DriveAnimation_ function recieves the input value and drives the finger animation by rotating them from current pose to 18 degree target rotation. 
* To prevent fingers to be animated while not grasping any object, we set the VG_FingerAnimator to be enabled or disabled in sync with the VG_AnimationDriver. This is because the VG_AnimationDriver is only enabled when the **Interactable Object** is grasped by the hand.

{% include image.html file="unity/unity_vg_fingeranimator.png" alt="VG Finger Animator." caption="VG Finger Animator." %}

{% include image.html file="unity/unity_vg_animationdriver.png" alt="VG Animation Driver." caption="VG Animation Driver" %}


#### Create object animation in sync with fingers
[VG_ObjectAnimator](unity_component_vgobjectanimator.1.1.0.html)





{% include image.html file="unity/unity_vg_objectanimator.png" alt="VG Object Animator." caption="VG Object Animator" %}

