---
title: VG_FingerAnimator Component
keywords: component, animator, grasp, fingeranimator
sidebar: main_sidebar_1_1_0
permalink: unity_component_vgfingeranimator.1.1.0.html
folder: mydoc
---

## Description

{% include image.html file="unity/unity_vg_fingeranimator.png" alt="VG Finger Animator." caption="VG Finger Animator." %}

VG_FingerAnimator is a {% include tooltip.html tooltip="VGPublicScript" text="public script" %} that can be used to overwrite ("post-animate") grasps that are generated by VirtualGrasp. The goal of it is to specify on which **Hand** side of which **Avatar**(s), a set of selected **Finger**(s) and their **Bone**(s) are to be rotated to certain **Rotation** from their initial poses. And multiple **Finger Animation** clips can be added together to create complex animations combining individual bones rotating to different angles. 

Besides the GUI interface, VG_FingerAnimator.DriveAnimation(float) public function is provided to enable dynamically driving finger animation. For example, this function can listen to the **On Driven** event of [VG_AnimationDriver](unity_component_vganimationdriver.1.1.0.html) to move fingers through a controller input.

Two major use cases can be covered by this component:

### Animating in-hand manipulation of articulated objects

Since grasps generated by VG are static hand poses on individual solid objects, to enable finger movement post grasping an object, this VG_FingerAnimator component can be used. [VG onboarding task9](unity_vgonboarding_task9.1.1.0.html) shows a detailed tutorial of how to enable in-hand manipulation of pliers using this component together with [VG_ObjectAnimator](unity_component_vgobjectanimator.1.1.0.html), and [VG_AnimationDriver](unity_component_vganimationdriver.1.1.0.html).


### Correcting primary grasps

When we use [VG_GraspEditor](unity_component_vggraspeditor.1.1.0.html) to add {% include tooltip.html tooltip="PrimaryGrasp" text="primary grasps" %} on an object, sometimes we can not find the exact grasp pose we want. VG_FingerAnimator can be used to make the minor corrections of finger poses on the added primary grasps. To do it, add VG_FingerAnimator component to the object transform, and specify which hand and finger bones to animate and how much to rotate from the primary grasp poses. 
