---
title: VG_FingerAnimator Component
keywords: component, animator, grasp, fingeranimator
sidebar: main_sidebar_1_4_0
permalink: unity_component_vgfingeranimator.1.4.0.html
folder: mydoc
---

## Description

{% include image.html file="unity/unity_vg_fingeranimator.png" alt="VG Finger Animator." caption="VG Finger Animator." %}

VG_FingerAnimator is a {% include tooltip.html tooltip="VGPublicScript" text="public script" %} that can be used to overwrite ("post-animate") grasps that are generated by VirtualGrasp. The goal of it is to specify on which **Hand** side of which **Avatar**(s), a set of selected **Finger**(s) and their **Bone**(s) are to be rotated to certain **Rotation** from their initial poses. And multiple **Finger Animation** clips can be added together to create complex animations combining individual bones rotating to different angles. 

Besides the GUI interface, VG_FingerAnimator.DriveAnimation(float) public function is provided to enable dynamically driving finger animation. For example, this function can listen to the **On Driven** event of [VG_AnimationDriver](unity_component_vganimationdriver.1.4.0.html) to move fingers through a controller input.

Two major use cases can be covered by this component:

### Animating in-hand manipulation of articulated objects

Since grasps generated by VG are static hand poses on individual solid objects, to enable finger movement post grasping an object, this VG_FingerAnimator component can be used. [VG onboarding task9](unity_vgonboarding_task9.1.4.0.html) shows a detailed tutorial of how to enable in-hand manipulation of pliers using this component together with [VG_ObjectAnimator](unity_component_vgobjectanimator.1.4.0.html) and [VG_AnimationDriver](unity_component_vganimationdriver.1.4.0.html).


### Correcting primary grasps

When [VG_GraspEditor](unity_component_vggraspeditor.1.4.0.html) is used to add {% include tooltip.html tooltip="PrimaryGrasp" text="primary grasps" %} on an object, sometimes it is difficult to find the exact grasp pose desired. VG_FingerAnimator can be used in such cases to make minor corrections of finger poses on the added primary grasps. To do it, add VG_FingerAnimator component to the object transform, and specify which hand and finger bones to animate and how much to rotate from the primary grasp poses. And also make sure to assign **Interactable Object** to be this transform in order to only enable animation when this object is grasped. 

{% include tip.html content="Only one primary grasp for each hand should be added for the object if VG_FingerAnimator is used to correct that primary grasp, because the animation is enabled whenever an object is grasped by the hand and VG_FingerAnimator does not differenciate between different primary grasps." %}