---
title: Getting Started in Unity
sidebar: mydoc_sidebar
keywords: hand, object, avatar, install, quickstart
permalink: mydoc_introduction.html
folder: mydoc
toc: false
---

## Requirements:

* a Windows computer
* Unity3D (latest recommended)
* [optional] an Oculus Quest headset

## Installing the Unity Engine plugin

If you start from the scratch, just create a new, empty project in Unity. It is recommended to always use the most recent Unity version in terms of major version number (e.g., 2020). Unity and the VG plugin are very robust in terms of up- or downgrading inside a major version for your projects.

{% include image.html file="unity/unity_new_project.png" alt="New Unity Project" caption="Create a New Project in Unity" %}

To import VirtualGrasp .unitypackage into your Unity project, go to Assets→ Import Package → Custom Package and pick the *.unitypackage. After doing this, you should find the VirtualGrasp installation under ThirdParty/VirtualGrasp in your Unity project. 

Drag and drop the Prefab “GleechiLib” from the ThirdParty/VirtualGrasp/Resources sub-directory into your scene. In your Hierarchy view, you will see the instantiated <a data-toggle="tooltip" data-original-title="{{site.data.glossary.GameObject}}">GameObject</a> hierarchy called GleechiLib.


### QuickStart Video

{% include youtube.html id="CHo9TB_yYps" caption="QuickStart with VirtualGrasp in Unity." %}


## Getting Started with VirtualGrasp and the Console View

Have a quick look at the imported GameObject by selecting it in the object hierarchy. There is only one component added by default, which is the minimal component needed for VirtualGrasp: MyVirtualGrasp.cs. When you now play your scene, you should see some messages produced by the plugin in the Console Window.

You can identify that VG has been successfully initialized when messages like these appear:
{% include image.html file="unity/unity_console_initialization.png" alt="VG Console Initialization" caption="" %}

If you created a new project, one of the first message you will probably see is the following:
{% include image.html file="unity/unity_no_tag.png" alt="No Unity tags." caption="" %}

{% include tip.html content="Whenever something related to the VirtualGrasp plugin does not work as expected, first have a look at the Console. In most cases, you will be able to identify issues through error messages that are generated by the plugin. You can also have a look at  to understand how to interpret messages." %}

VirtualGrasp uses tags and layers to mark objects as interactable. By default, it searches for "Object" as a layer or tag name. For now, just create a new tag by and call it "Object."You can do this either by adding a new object into your scene and use "Add Tag" (see leftpicture below, "Tag"), or by opening the Layers→"Edit Layers" and add the Tag there (see the [Figure below](mydoc_introduction.html#5-make-an-object-interactable-in-a-few-seconds).). 

## A First Look at the Hand Model

After importing a hand model into your scene (such as the provided OculusRig_3), link it into its place under Sensors → Avatars → Skeletal Mesh. For example, by dragging and dropping Rhand.001 (which you can find directly under OculusRig_3 in the Hierarchy) into this slot.

{% include image.html file="unity/unity_hand_model.png" alt="Unity hand model." caption="" %}

You can replace this model by any other skinned mesh renderer that you import into the scene, but note that there are restrictions on which kind of skeletons are supported. 

As a rule of thumb, the rigging / model hierarchy should be same as the model in the project:

* 1 avatar / skeletal mesh should include 2 hands, 
* 1 hand should include 5 fingers (no extra bones), and 
* 1 finger should include 3-4 bones (with or without fingertip). If a fingertip is missing, the plugin will guess its position, but it is recommended, and also very easy in Unity to add missing fingertip bones.

You can see that VG has successfully initialized the avatar when messages like these appear:

{% include image.html file="unity/unity_avatar_init.png" alt="Unity avatar init." caption="" %}

{% include tip.html content="Enable \"Update When Offscreen\" for your models to always show the hands." %}

## A First Look at the Sensor Setup

In the default prefab, a sensor setting is configured for the any controller supported through Unity by UnityXR.

As you can see in the top of the MyVirtualGrasp, you can "auto-setup" the whole configuration for some most commonly used sensors, to quickly switch between Oculus controllers, mouse control, finger tracking, and other controllers.

If you do not have a headset, you can use the "Mouse" autosetup and control the hands with the mouse.

If you have a headset the easiest way is to setup Unity XR Management for your project as follows:

* in the "Edit" menu, choose Project Settings→XR Plugin Management and "Install XR Plugin Management"
* enable "Oculus" as Plugin-Provider (assuming you are using a Quest)
* Right click "Camera" in Hierarchy and select "XR→Convert Camera To XR Rig"
* connect Quest with USB cable (the charging cable)
* Click "Enable Link" inside the headset

{% include image.html file="unity/unity_xr_plugin.png" alt="Unity XR Plugin." caption="Installing Unity XR Management." %}

Then, the "XRRig" transform that is created should be assigned to the sensor origin.

{% include image.html file="unity/unity_control_flags.png" alt="VG control flags." caption="" %}

{% include note.html content="You will have noticed that (if you used a fresh project) you did not even need to setup your scene for VR. You can run VirtualGrasp without a VR headset and your scene does not need to be a VR scene." %}

## Make an Object Interactable in a Few Seconds

VirtualGrasp is using tags or layers to mark objects as interactable. By default, it searches for "Object" as a layer or tag name. 

In Unity, the very simple way to make an object interactable is to

* add the object into your scene, and
* add the "Object" tag to the object.

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Inspector View</th>
<th>Layer Menu</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td markdown="span">{% include image.html file="unity/object_tag1.png" alt="Unity tags 1." %}</td>
<td markdown="span">{% include image.html file="unity/object_tag2.png" alt="Unity tags 2." %}
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Be aware of the following:

* Note that this will make an object interactable with the hands through the VG Interaction Engine. If you also get natural grasps depends on if  the object has been "baked."
* only GameObjects with a Mesh connected to it should receive the "Object" tag. Otherwise, you will receive a warning.
* all of these meshes need to be marked as "readable" in the model inspector. Otherwise, you will receive a warning / error.
* VG automatically compensates for suffixes generated by the game engine after cloning an object (e.g. adding " (2)" for Unity), so an "apple (2)" will be treated like an "apple".

<!--
### Video Tutorial 

The following video content is outdated in the sense that VG has been updated to NOT consider names anymore (due to the issues addressed in the video). VG is directly identifying duplicates or differences based on the shape.

{% include youtube.html id="oVILrei1LGA" %}
-->

### Related Features

Customizing Layers and Tags

If you like, you can customize the tag and layer names that are used to identify VG objects  in the MyVirtualGrasp component, under "Object Identifiers":

{% include image.html file="unity/unity_object_identifiers.png" alt="Unity Object Identifiers." caption=""%}

Note that "Object" is always a tag identifier for VG, independent of the content of the list. The default entry is only shown in the List to remind you about it.

### Exercises

Create your own project and import VirtualGrasp (10 min)

Have a look at the contents of the package (5 min)

Try out another hand model (if you have any available) (5 min)

### FAQs

<div class="panel-group" id="accordion">
    <div class="panel panel-default">
        <div class="panel-heading">
            <h4 class="panel-title">
                <a class="noCrossRef accordion-toggle" data-toggle="collapse" data-parent="#accordion" href="#collapseOne">What's an EXTERNAL_CONTROLLER?</a>
            </h4>
        </div>
        <div id="collapseOne" class="panel-collapse collapse noCrossRef">
            <div class="panel-body">
                There are a few controllers that are supported "out of the box" by VirtualGrasp, called INTERNAL_CONTROLLERS, which means that no additional Unity plugins are needed. Read more on this on <a href="mydoc_external_controllers.html">External Controllers</a>.).
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="panel panel-default">
        <div class="panel-heading">
            <h4 class="panel-title">
                <a class="noCrossRef accordion-toggle" data-toggle="collapse" data-parent="#accordion" href="#collapseTwo">What kind of sensor would I choose for the Oculus Quest that I have? One of the Oculus Touch options? Or perhaps external controller? </a>
            </h4>
        </div>
        <div id="collapseTwo" class="panel-collapse collapse noCrossRef">
            <div class="panel-body">
                You can have to use the EXTERNAL_CONTROLLER setting and "UnityXR". You may also want to check out [Building for Quest](mydoc_external_controllers.html).
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>
